Getting started guide part 2 (#4748)
kubernetes-sigs/kustomize: site/content/en/docs/Getting started/first_kustomization.md

### Create variants using overlays

> Now let's assume that you need to deploy the nginx manifests from the previous section to two environments called `Staging` and `Production`. The manifests for these two environments will be mostly identical, with only a few minor changes between them. These two mostly identical manifests are called "variants". Traditionally, to create variants you could duplicate the manifests and apply the changes manually or rely on some templating engine. With kustomize you can avoid templating and duplication of your manifests and apply the different changes you need using overlays. With this approach, the `base` would contain the common part of the your variants and the `overlays` contain your environment specific changes.

Reviewer: Typo: `the your variants`. Suggestion:

```suggestion
Now let's assume that you need to deploy the nginx manifests from the previous section to two environments called `Staging` and `Production`. The manifests for these two environments will be mostly identical, with only a few minor changes between them. These two mostly identical manifests are called "variants". Traditionally, to create variants you could duplicate the manifests and apply the changes manually or rely on some templating engine. With kustomize you can avoid templating and duplication of your manifests and apply the different changes you need using overlays. With this approach, the `base` contains what your environments have in common, and the `overlays` contain your environment-specific changes.
```

        └── kustomization.yaml
```

### Customizing overlays

> For the purposes this example, let's define some requirements of how your deployment should look like in the two environments:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the purposes of this example, let's define some requirements for how your deployment should look like in the two environments:
```

    app: nginx
---
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  labels:
    app: nginx
    variant: var1
  name: env1-example-nginx-production
  namespace: production
spec:
  replicas: 3
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: nginx
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: nginx
        variant: var1
    spec:
      containers:
      - env:
        - name: ENVIRONMENT               ### Environment variable has been added here
          value: prod
        image: nginx:1.20.2
        name: nginx
        ports:
        - containerPort: 80
```

Looking at the output of `kustomize build` you can see that the additional requirements that were set have now been met.  Below are the files as they should be at this point in your overlays and the `kustomize build` output:

_kustomize-example/overlays/production/kustomization.yaml_:
```yaml
apiVersion: kustomize.config.k8s.io/v1beta1
kind: Kustomization

namePrefix: env1-
nameSuffix: -production

namespace: production

replicas:
- name: example-nginx
  count: 3

images:
- name: nginx
  newTag: 1.20.2

labels:
- pairs:
    variant: var1
  includeSelectors: false
  includeTemplates: true

resources:
- ../../base

patches:

> - patch-env-vars.yaml

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- path: patch-env-vars.yaml
```

Author: this works for me without `path:` as well, is that intended?

Updated all occurrences in this page as suggested

Reviewer: I didn't even know it myself until recently, but it seems that a long time ago, the `patches` field was essentially the `patchesStrategicMerge` field, and Kustomize still detects the now-incorrect syntax and silently converts it internally to `patchesStrategicMerge`, making paths and raw patches work (as long as they contain SMPs).

Author: thanks for the information!

```

_Staging overlay build_:

```yaml
$ kustomize build overlays/staging/

apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  labels:
    app: nginx
    variant: var2
  name: env2-example-nginx-staging
  namespace: staging
spec:
  ports:
  - port: 80
    protocol: TCP
    targetPort: 80
  selector:
    app: nginx
---
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  labels:
    app: nginx
    variant: var2
  name: env2-example-nginx-staging
  namespace: staging
spec:
  replicas: 2
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: nginx
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: nginx
        variant: var2
    spec:
      containers:
      - env:
        - name: ENVIRONMENT
          value: stg
        image: nginx:latest
        name: nginx
        ports:
        - containerPort: 80
```

### Next steps

Congratulations on making it to the end of this tutorial.  As a summary for you, these are the customizations that were presented in this tutorial:

- Add a name prefix and a name suffix
- Set the namespace for your resources
- Set the number of replicas for your deployment
- Set the image to use
- Add a label to your resources
- Add an environment variable to a container by using a patch

> These are just a few of the things kustomize can do, and if you are interested to learn more the kustomization reference (to add link here) is your next step. You will see how you can use components to define base resources and add them to specific overlays where needed, use generators to create configMaps from files, and much more!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These are just a few of the things kustomize can do. if you are interested to learn more, the kustomization reference (to add link here) is your next step. You will see how you can use components to define base resources and add them to specific overlays where needed, use generators to create configMaps from files, and much more!
```

Can we also add the link to the reference where it currently is now? Even though it has no content, it may well stay in that location, and having _some_ placeholder link should make it easier for us to update than a note would be.
